# Example text for manuscripts <!-- omit in toc -->

This document contains example text for a data-dependent proteomics run performed in the BMS. 

## Method text

Mass Spectrometry Analysis

Protein solutions in Laemmli buffer were prepared for digestion using the SP3 protocol with modifications (PMID: 25358341, 30464214). Specifically, 2μL of a mixture of Sera-Mag carboxylate SpeedBeads (CAT#45152105050250 and CAT#65152105050250, prepared as 100mg/mL stock solution in water) was added to each sample prior to 4X volumes of acetone. Mixtures were incubated on a Thermomixer at 37°C for 5-minutes at 800rpm prior to centrifugation at 5,000g for 5-minutes. After spinning, the supernatant was discarded and beads rinsed using 800μL of an 80% (v/v) ethanol solution with pipetting to resuspend the beads. Mixteres were centrifuged at 5,000g for 5-minutes and the supernatant discarded prior to the addition of 500ng of trypsin/rLysC mix (Promega) in 100μL of digestion solution (100mM ammonium bicarbonate, 1mM CaCl2) and incubation at 37°C for 16-hours in a Thermomixer with mixing at 800rpm. After digestion, tubes were centrifuged for 1-minute at 1,000g and 10μL of a 100mM solution of dithiothreitol was added and samples incubated at 37°C for 15-minutes with mixing at 800rpm. Peptides were then alkylated via addition of 10μL of a 400mM solution of iodoacetamide and samples incubated at 37°C for 15-minutes with mixing at 800rpm. Mixtures were centrifuged at 12,000g for 2-minutes and the supernatant recovered to a fresh tube containing 5μL of a 10% (v/v) solution of trifluoroacetic acid. To desalt peptides prior to mass spectrometry (MS) analysis, an HPLC system (Agilent 1290 Infinity II with a DAD module) equipped with a reversed-phase column (CORTECS T3 1.6μm, 2.1x50mm, Waters) was utilized. Specifically, peptides were injected to a column equilibrated at 4% mobile phase B (0.1% formic acid in acetonitrile), rinsed for 1.5-minutes at a flow rate of 1mL/min, and subsequently eluted for 0.8-minutes at 80% mobile phase B (mobile phase A = 0.1% formic acid in water). Desalted peptides were dried in a SpeedVac centrifuge and reconstituted in 1% (v/v) formic acid in water at a concentration of 1μg/μL based on the 214nm UV signal from the HPLC desalting step.     

DDA-MS analysis was carried out on an Orbitrap Lumos instrument interfaced to a Waters M-Class liquid chromatography (LC) system. For analysis, peptide samples were initially trapped on a pre-column (ACQUITY UPLC M-Class Symmetry C18 Trap, 180µm x 2cm, 5µm beads, Waters) and then separated by an analytical column (nanoEase M/Z Peptide BEH C18, 75µm x 25cm, 1.7µm beads, Waters). Samples were initially trapped for 3-minutes at a flow rate of 20µL/min of 1% mobile phase B (0.1% formic acid in acetonitrile). Gradient separation of trapped peptides started at an initial condition of 3% mobile phase B, ramped to 7% B in 1-minute, to 28% B in 44-minutes, to 80% B in 0.5-minutes, hold at 80% B for 2-minutes, ramp to 3% B in 0.5-minutes, and a final hold at 3% B for 12-minutes for a total run time of 60-minutes (mobile phase A = 0.1% formic acid in water, flow rate = 300nL/min). Data acquisition on the Orbitrap Lumos utilized a standard data-dependent acquisition scheme. Specifically, the Orbitrap Lumos was globally set to use a positive ion spray voltage of 2200V, an ion transfer tube temperature of 275°C, a default charge state of 2, advanced precursor determination activated, and an RF Lens setting of 45%. MS1 survey scans covered a mass range of 350-1600m/z at a resolution of 60,000 with an automatic gain control (AGC) target of 4e5 (100%) and the injection time set to 'Auto'. Precursors for tandem MS/MS (MS2) analysis were selected using monoisotopic precursor selection ('Peptide' mode), charge state filtering (2-4z), dynamic exclusion (10 ppm low and high, 45s duration, exclude isotopes = TRUE, exclude within cycle = TRUE), and an intensity threshold of 5e4. MS2 scans were carried out in the Orbitrap at a resolution of 30,000 using a higher-energy collision dissociation setting of 30%, an AGC target of 1.2e5 (240%), injection time set to 'Custom' (54ms), and an isolation window setting of 1.6m/z. The total allowable MS2 cycle time was set to 3s. MS1 data were acquired in profile mode, and MS2 in centroid. DDA-MS raw data were analyzed using FragPipe software (version 22.1) with MSFragger (version 4.1) using the default workflow settings (PMID: 28394336). Specifically, raw data files were searched using MSFragger against a representative human proteome fasta database (version 10/2024, 20,460 entries, includes non-human contaminants) using precursor and fragment tolerances of 20 parts-per million (PPM), a fixed modification of 57.02146 at C, and variable modifications of 15.9949 at M and 42.0106 at protein N-termini. Matching spectra were rescored using MSBooster and peptide spectral match (PSM) validation utilized Percolator prior to ProteinProphet scoring to support filtering at <1% FDR at the PSM, peptide, and protein levels. Peptides were quantified using the IonQuant package built into FragPipe with the default settings. Detailed settings for all FragPipe analyses are available with the deposited results on ProteomExchange. Resulting data were parsed to facilitate comparisons and final reporting using R. For quantification, iBAQ values were calculated using FragPipe-derived protein abundance values relative to theoretically detectable peptide values calculated using a custom R-script (PMID: 21593866).   


