# Example text for manuscripts <!-- omit in toc -->

This document contains example text for a data-dependent proteomics run performed in the BMS. You should confirm with the BMS if you have used this type of method and any modifications that may have been made to the analysis routine (e.g. length of analysis). 

## Method text

DDA-MS analysis was carried out on an Orbitrap Lumos instrument interfaced to an UltiMate 3000 liquid chromatography (LC) system. For analysis, peptide samples were initially trapped on a pre-column (100µm x 3cm, 1.9µm C18 Reprosil-Pur Basic beads from Dr. Maisch) and then separated by an analytical column (75µm x 25cm with an integrated nanospray tip, 1.9µm C18 Reprosil-Pur Basic beads) with a 45-minute gradient at a flow rate of 250nL/min (60-minutes total run time). Data acquisition on the Orbitrap Lumos (instrument control version 4.0) utilized a standard data-dependent acquisition scheme. Specifically, the Orbitrap Lumos was globally set to use a positive ion spray voltage of 2400V, an ion transfer tube temperature of 275°C, a default charge state of 2, advanced precursor determination activated, and an RF Lens setting of 45%. MS1 survey scans covered a mass range of 375-1400m/z at a resolution of 60,000 with an automatic gain control (AGC) target of 4e5 (100%) and the injection time set to 'Auto'. Precursors for tandem MS/MS (MS2) analysis were selected using monoisotopic precursor selection ('Peptide' mode), charge state filtering (2-4z), dynamic exclusion (20 ppm low and high, 60s duration, exclude isotopes = TRUE, exclude within cycle = TRUE), and an intensity threshold of 5e4. MS2 scans were carried out in the Orbitrap at a resolution of 30,000 using a higher-energy collision dissociation setting of 30%, an AGC target of 1e5 (200%), injection time set to 'Auto', and an isolation window setting of 1.6m/z. The total allowable MS2 cycle time was set to 3s. MS1 data were acquired in profile mode, and MS2 in centroid.