# Example text for manuscripts <!-- omit in toc -->

This document contains example text for a data-independent proteomics run performed in the BMS. You should confirm with the BMS if you have used this type of method and any modifications that may have been made to the analysis routine (e.g. length of analysis). Locations denoted with 'PMID' are PubMed references that should be inserted for the specific methods or tools in question. 

## Method text

Sample preparation for MS-based proteomics
Protein was extracted from cell pellets using 150μL of a solution of 20mM TrisCl pH 7.5, 150mM KCl, 5mM MgCl2, 0.5% (v/v) NP⁃40, 0.5% (w/v) sodium deoxycholate, and 0.5X cOmplete protease inhibitor (Sigma). To support degradation of DNA/RNA, 10μL of a nuclease solution (1U/μL benzonase) was added to the tissue solution and incubated at 24°C for 10-minutes. After nuclease digestion, 50μL of a solution of 600mM TrisCl pH 7.5, 8% (w/v) SDS, and 10mM dithiothreitol (DTT) was added to the tissue lysate and incubated at 95°C for 5-minutes in a heating block. After cooling to 24°C, lysates were alkylated using 20mM chloroacetamide (final concentration) and subsequently quenched with DTT. Protein concentration of the resulting lysate was measured using a BCA assay (Thermo Scientific). Protein cleanup prior to digestion was carried out using an adapted version of the previously described SP3 protocol (PMID: 25358341). Briefly, 10μL of a 50mg/mL carboxylate-coated bead stock (Cytiva) was added to 40μg of protein in 100μL of solution followed by 400μL of acetone to support precipitation on the bead surface (PMID: 32195589). After a 5-minute incubation at 24°C, mixtures were centrifuged for 5-minutes at 5,000 x g. Resulting supernatants were discarded and pelleted material was resuspended in 800μL of 80% ethanol and pelleted again as above. The ethanol supernatant was removed and 1μg of trypsin/LysC (Promega, CAT#V5071) in 100μL of 4M urea was added to each sample and incubated at 30°C for 4-hours with shaking at 800 rpm. Samples were then diluted to 1M urea by addition of 300μL of 100mM TrisCl pH 7.5 and digested for an additional 16-hours under the same conditions. After digestion, the supernatant was collected after centrifugation at 12,000 x g for 2-minutes and subsequently desalted using Strata-X SPE (Phenomenex, CAT# 8M-S100-4GA) micro-elution plates. SPE wells were initially conditioned with 100% (v/v) methanol (100μL) followed by equilibration with 0.1% (v/v) trifluoroacetic acid (TFA, Thermo Scientific) (100μL). Loaded peptides were rinsed using 4% (v/v) methanol in 0.1% (v/v) formic acid (Thermo Scientific) (200μL) and eluted using 60% (v/v) methanol in 0.1% (v/v) formic acid (100μL). All SPE steps were carried out using a centrifuge with spinning at 250 x g for 3-minutes. Eluted peptides were evaporated to dryness in a SpeedVac centrifuge and reconstituted in a solution of 1% dimethylsulfoxide (v/v) in 1% (v/v) formic acid. Reconstituted peptide solutions were quantified on a QTRAP5500 MS using measured signal relative to a standard of known concentration. 

Peptide fractionation for Spectral Library Construction 
A 20μg aliquot of peptide was taken from each sample to generate a representative pool. The peptide pool was fractionated using a high-pH C18 chromatography setup on an Agilent 1290 Inifinity II system (Agilent Technologies). Injected peptides were separated with a 30-minute linear gradient (40-minutes total run time) of mobile phase A (20mM ammonium bicarbonate) and B (80% acetonitrile) using a 2.1mm x 150mm Kinetix EVO C18 column (1.7μm beads, Phenomenex). A total of 48 fractions were collected across a window of 32-minutes and subsequently concatenated into a final set of 12 (fraction 1 = wells A/B/C/D1, fraction 2 = wells A/B/C/D2, …). Fractions were dried in a SpeedVac centrifuge, reconstituted in 0.1% TFA, and desalted using Strata-X SPE plates as described above. Peptide concentrations in the resulting fractions were determined using a QTRAP5500 measuring signal relative to a standard of known concentration. 

MS Data Acquisition 
Peptide samples and fractions were analyzed using a data-independent acquisition (DIA) acquisition routine on an Orbitrap Fusion Lumos mass spectrometer (MS) (Thermo Scientific). Samples were introduced to the MS using an Dionex UltiMate liquid chromatography (LC) instrument (Thermo Scientific) equipped with a trapping-analytical column setup. For injection, peptides were initially trapped using 95% mobile phase A (0.1% formic acid) on a 100μm inner diameter x 3cm length column packed in-house with 1.9 μm Reprosil Pur C18 beads (Dr. Maisch, r119.aq.). Gradient elution of peptides was performed using a ramp of mobile phase B (80% v/v acetonitrile in 0.1% formic acid) on a 100μm inner diameter x 25 cm length analytical column packed with 1.9μm Reprosil Pur C18 beads. For each injection, 1μg of peptides were separated with an 80⁃minute LC linear gradient from 5% to 11% mobile phase B in 0.5-minutes, and to 34% B in 72.5-minutes at 400nL/min, followed by rinsing and re-equilibration over the remaining 7-minutes. The analytical column outlet was coupled to a 20μm inner diameter LOTUS electrospray tip (Fossil Ion Tech.). Each peptide sample was injected three individual times (80-minute acquisition time for each), with each acquisition covering analysis of a separate mass range (injection 1 = 430 - 550, 2 = 550 - 690, 3 = 690 – 930 m/z). Specifically, the Orbitrap Lumos MS was globally set to use a positive ion spray voltage of 2200 V, an ion transfer tube temperature of 275°C, a default charge state of 3, and an RF Lens setting of 45%. The complete duty cycle of the acquisition method consisted of two MS1 scans and two sets of windowed MS2 scans (order MS1 - MS2 - MS1 - MS2). For the first, low mass range injection, the initial MS1 scan covered a mass range of 425-555m/z at a resolution of 60,000 with an AGC target of 4e5 (100%) and a max injection time set to ‘Auto’. The following set of DIA MS2 scans covered a precursor range of 430-550m/z with an isolation window size of 4m/z (0m/z overlap) for a total of 30 scan events. Each scan used an HCD energy of 30% and covered a defined mass range of 200-1800m/z at a resolution of 30,000 with a normalized AGC target of 1000%, and the maximum injection time set to ‘Auto’. Loop control was set to ‘N’ with a value of 30 spectra. The next MS1 scan and following DIA MS2 used the same settings as the previous with the exception that the MS2 precursor mass range was set to 428-552m/z to give a 2m/z stagger with the previous scan windows. For the second, medium mass range injection, the scan settings were the same as for the low mass injection with the following changes: 1. MS1 scan range of 545-695m/z; 2. DIA-MS2 precursor scan ranges of 550-690m/z and 548-692m/z; 3. Loop control number of spectra = 35. For the third, high mass range injection, the scan settings were the same as the others with the following changes: 1. MS1 scan range of 685-935m/z; 2. DIA-MS2 precursor scan ranges of 690-930m/z and 686-934m/z; 3. DIA-MS2 isolation window of 8m/z; 4. Loop control number of spectra = 30. All scan data were acquired in centroid mode.

MS Data Analysis
DIA-MS raw data were de-multiplexed using msconvert (ProteoWizard, version 3.0.23304-e66e43d, peakPicking = ‘vendor’, demultiplex = overlap only, 10ppm, SIM as spectra) and processed using the command-line version of DIA-NN (version 1.8.1) (PMID: 31768060). Specifically, a representative human proteome fasta database (version 02/2024, 20,534 entries, includes non-human contaminants and an in-house annotated version of the KHSV proteome) was provided to DIA-NN along with all of the raw data in order to perform an initial spectral library generation step (diann.exe --f inputFiles.mzML --lib  --threads 28 --verbose 1 --out report.tsv --qvalue 0.01 --matrices --out-lib report-lib.tsv --gen-spec-lib --predictor --fasta database.fasta --fasta-search --min-fr-mz 200 --max-fr-mz 1800 --met-excision --cut K*,R* --missed-cleavages 1 --min-pep-len 7 --max-pep-len 35 --min-pr-mz 430 --max-pr-mz 930 --min-pr-charge 2 --max-pr-charge 4 --unimod4 --individual-mass-acc --individual-windows --rt-profiling --peak-center --no-ifs-removal). Afterwards, raw files for each mass range were searched together against this generated spectral library using DIA-NN (diann.exe --f lowMassRangeFiles.mzML  --lib report-lib.tsv --threads 28 --verbose 1 --out report.tsv --qvalue 0.01 --matrices --fasta database.fasta --met-excision --cut K*,R* --window 10 --mass-acc 10 --mass-acc-ms1 10 --rt-profiling --peak-center --no-ifs-removal). Resulting report files were passed to the iq package (Lib.Q.Value = 0.01, Lib.PG.Q.Value = 0.01, normalization = median) in R to generate estimates of protein abundance (PMID: 31909781). 
