# Example text for manuscripts <!-- omit in toc -->

This document contains example text for a data-dependent proteomics run performed in the BMS. You should confirm with the BMS if you have used this type of method and any modifications that may have been made to the analysis routine (e.g. length of analysis). 

## Method text

Acid-eluted peptides were desalted using Oasis HLB 96-well micro-elution well plates (2mg sorbent per well, Waters) on a vacuum manifold device. Wells were initially rinsed with 600µL of methanol followed by equilibration with 600µL of 0.1% (v/v) triflouroacetic acid (TFA) in water. Prepared wells were loaded with sample and rinsed with 600µL of 2% (v/v) methanol in water with 0.1% (v/v) formic acid. Elution was performed with 400µL of 60% methanol (v/v) in water with 0.1% (v/v) formic acid. Eluted samples were dried using a SpeedVac concentrator and reconstituted in 100mM HEPES pH 8.3 in water. Peptide concentrations in each sample were determined using the Pierce Quantitative Colorimetric Peptide Assay according to the manufacturer's instructions. The resulting peptide amounts were normalized and labeled using 6-plex tandem mass tag (TMT) reagents. TMT reagents were reconstituted at a concentration of 10µg/µL in acetonitrile and added to each sample to reach a µg:µg ratio of 2:1 (TMT reagent:sample peptide) and incubated for 20-minutes at room temperature. This addition and incubation was repeated once to achieve a final TMT reagent to sample peptide ratio of 4:1. TMT labeling reactions were quenched by addition of 1M TrisCl pH 7.5. Replicate samples were labeled in channels TMT126C, TMT128C, TMT129C or TMT127N, TMT129N, TMT131N to minimize interference from channel cross-talk. Labeled peptides were concentrated in a SpeedVac centrifuge and reconstituted in 0.1% (v/v) TFA in water. Reconstituted peptides were combined and desalted as above using a Strata-X SPE cartridge (10mg, Phenomenex) prior to SpeedVac concentration and reconstitution in 1% (v/v) DMSO, 1% (v/v) formic acid in water. 

DDA-MS analysis was carried out on an Orbitrap Lumos mass spectrometer (MS) instrument interfaced to a Waters M-Class liquid chromatography (LC) system. For analysis, peptide samples were initially trapped on a pre-column (180µm x 2cm, 5µm Symmetry C18 from Waters) for 3-minutes at 20µL/min of 3% mobile phase B (99.9% acetonitrile, 0.1% formic acid) and then separated by an analytical column (75µm x 25cm, 1.7µm BEH Peptide C18 from Waters). The gradient ramped from an initial starting condition of 3% mobile phase B to 9% B over 1-minute, 35% B over 164-minutes, to 80% B in 0.5-minutes, hold at 80% B for 2-minutes, ramp to 3% B in 0.5-minutes, with a final equilibration at 3% B for 12-minutes (180-minutes total run-time, mobile phase A = 0.1% formic acid in water). The column outlet was connected to the MS electrospray interface using the uPAC Flex iON ESI-MS interface with a 20µm emitter (FossilIonTech, 5cm length) and the NanoSpray Flex source (Thermo Scientific).  Data acquisition on the Orbitrap Lumos (instrument control version 4.2) utilized a standard data-dependent acquisition scheme. Specifically, the Orbitrap Lumos was globally set to use a positive ion spray voltage of 2200V, an ion transfer tube temperature of 275°C, a default charge state of 2, advanced peak determination activated, and an RF Lens setting of 45%. MS1 survey scans covered a mass range of 350-900m/z at a resolution of 120,000 with an automatic gain control (AGC) target of 4e5 (100%) and the injection time set to 'Auto'. Precursors for tandem MS/MS (MS2) analysis were selected using monoisotopic precursor selection ('Peptide' mode, center on most abundant peak), charge state filtering (2-6z), dynamic exclusion (10 ppm low and high, 60s duration, exclude isotopes = TRUE, exclude within cycle = TRUE, dependent scans on single charge state = TRUE), and an intensity threshold of 5e4. MS2 scans were carried out in the Orbitrap at a resolution of 60,000 using a higher-energy collision dissociation setting of 38%, an AGC target of 1.2e5 (240%), injection time set to 'Custom' (118ms max), and an isolation window setting of 1m/z. The total allowable MS2 cycle time was set to 3s. MS1 data were acquired in profile mode, and MS2 in centroid.

The resulting MS data were analyzed using FragPipe (version 22.0) with MSFragger (version 4.1), IonQuant (version 1.10.27), and Philosopher (version 5.1.1). Data were searched against the UniProt Human database concatenated with common contaminant proteins (downloaded on October 15, 2024; 40,920 total entries, 20,460 decoys). FragPipe was configured to use the 'Nonspecific-HLA-TMT10' default settings without cysteine alkylation. TMT6 was specified as a fixed modification on the peptide N-terminus and at lysine sites (+229.16293), with cysteinylation (+119.0041@C) and oxidation (+15.9949@M) as variable. Precursor and fragment mass tolerances were set to 20ppm. Peptide spectral match and peptide outputs were filtered to 1% FDR based on validation using Percolator. TMT reporter ion intensities were calculated using FragPipe with the default settings for TMT6, specifying a minimum purity of 0.05 and with normalization set to 'None'.  