# Example text for manuscripts <!-- omit in toc -->

This document contains example text for a targeted metabolomics run performed in the BMS. 

## Method text

Cell material corresponding to 100µg of protein was spiked with heavy-labeled internal standard compounds (final concentration): d4-choline (0.1µg/mL), d9-CDP-choline (0.5µg/mL), d9-GPC (0.5µg/mL), d9-phosphocholine (0.5µg/mL). Each sample was diluted with 4-volumes of a solution of 50/50 methanol/ethanol. Extraction was carried out at -20C for 1-hour prior to centrifuging samples for 5-minutes at 12,000g. A total of 80% (v/v) of the supernatant was collected and transferred to a fresh tube for concentration in a SpeedVac. Samples were reconstituted in water prior to mass spectrometry (MS) analysis. Targeted MS analysis was carried out on a QExactive instrument interfaced to an Thermo Vanquish liquid chromatography (LC) system controlled using XCalibur software (version 4.2). For analysis, samples were directly separated by an analytical column (2.1mm x 150mm, Acclaim RSLC 120 C18 2.2µm, Thermo Scientific) at a flow rate of 0.4mL/min. For analyte elution the gradient held at an initial starting condition of 1% mobile phase B (99.9% acetonitrile, 0.1% formic acid) for 2-minutes before ramping to 80% B over 0.1 minutes, holding at 80% B for 0.9-minutes, ramping to 1% B in 0.1-minutes and holding for 2.9-minutes (total run time of 6-minutes, mobile phase A = 10mM ammonium formate pH 2.9 in water). Data acquisition on the QExactive (instrument control version 2.13) utilized a targeted parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) acquisition scheme with an MS/MS resolution of 17,500, an AGC target of 1e6, a maximum injection time of 50ms, and an isolation window of 0.7m/z. Each sample was injected for analysis using positive and negative polarities. In positive mode, the acquisition method was set to loop over all pre-specified precursors for the following metabolites (parent m/z, fragment m/z, NCE): ethanolamine (62.06, 10); CDP-ethanolamine (447.06, 30); choline (104.17, 70); d4-choline (108.13, 70); CDP-choline (489.1, 45); d9-CDP-choline (498.16, 45); GPC (258.10, 25); d9-GPC (267.16, 25); phosphocholine (184.07, 50); d9-phosphocholine (193.12, 50). The QExactive was globally set to use a sheath gas of 45, aux gas of 20, sweep gas of 2, spray voltage of 3.7kV, capillary temperature of 300, S-lens RF of 45, and auxillary temperature of 400. In negative mode, the acquisition was set to loop over all pre-specific precursors for the following metabolites (parent m/z, fragment m/z, NCE): phosphoethanolamine (140.02, 10). The QExactive was globally set to use a sheath gas of 50, aux gas of 13, sweep gas of 3, spray voltage of 2.5kV, capillary temperature of 300, S-lens RF of 45, and auxillary temperature of 400.  

