# Example text for manuscripts <!-- omit in toc -->

This document contains example text for a data-dependent proteomics run performed in the BMS. 

## Method text

Sample preparation for MS-based proteomics

Protein solutions were diluted using a 20mM TrisCl pH 7.5, 150mM KCl, 5mM MgCl2, 0.5% (v/v) NP⁃40, 0.5% (w/v) sodium deoxycholate, and 0.5X cOmplete protease inhibitor (Sigma). To support degradation of DNA/RNA, 10μL of a nuclease solution (1U/μL benzonase) was added to the protein solution and incubated at 24°C for 10-minutes. After nuclease digestion, a 4X solution of 600mM TrisCl pH 7.5, 8% (w/v) SDS, and 10mM dithiothreitol (DTT) was added (1X final) to the protein solution and incubated at 95°C for 5-minutes in a heating block. After cooling to 24°C, lysates were alkylated using 20mM chloroacetamide (final concentration) and subsequently quenched with DTT. Protein cleanup prior to digestion was carried out using an adapted version of the previously described SP3 protocol (PMID: 25358341). Briefly, 10μL of a 50mg/mL carboxylate-coated bead stock (Cytiva) was added to the protein solution followed by acetone (80% v/v final) to support precipitation on the bead surface (PMID: 32195589). After a 5-minute incubation at 24°C, mixtures were centrifuged for 5-minutes at 5,000 x g. Resulting supernatants were discarded and pelleted material was resuspended in 800μL of 80% ethanol and pelleted again as above. The ethanol supernatant was removed and 1μg of trypsin/LysC (Promega, CAT#V5071) in 100μL of 4M urea was added to each sample and incubated at 30°C for 4-hours with shaking at 800 rpm. Samples were then diluted to 1M urea by addition of 300μL of 100mM TrisCl pH 7.5 and digested for an additional 16-hours under the same conditions. After digestion, the supernatant was collected after centrifugation at 12,000 x g for 2-minutes and subsequently desalted using Strata-X SPE (Phenomenex, CAT# 8M-S100-4GA) micro-elution plates. SPE wells were initially conditioned with 100% (v/v) methanol (100μL) followed by equilibration with 0.1% (v/v) trifluoroacetic acid (TFA, Thermo Scientific) (100μL). Loaded peptides were rinsed using 4% (v/v) methanol in 0.1% (v/v) formic acid (Thermo Scientific) (200μL) and eluted using 60% (v/v) methanol in 0.1% (v/v) formic acid (100μL). All SPE steps were carried out using a centrifuge with spinning at 250 x g for 3-minutes. Eluted peptides were evaporated to dryness in a SpeedVac centrifuge and reconstituted in a solution of 1% dimethylsulfoxide (v/v) in 1% (v/v) formic acid.  

MS Data Acquisition

DDA-MS analysis was carried out on an Orbitrap Lumos instrument interfaced to an UltiMate 3000 liquid chromatography (LC) system. For analysis, peptide samples were initially trapped on a pre-column (75µm x 3cm, 1.9µm C18 Reprosil-Pur Basic beads from Dr. Maisch) and then separated by an analytical column (75µm x 25cm with an integrated nanospray tip, 1.9µm C18 Reprosil-Pur Basic beads). The gradient ramped from an initial starting condition of 5% mobile phase B (80% acetonitrile, 0.1% formic acid) to 34% B over 45-minutes, with sample pickup and column equilibration using an additional 15-minutes (60-minute total run time, mobile phase A = 0.1% formic acid in water). Data acquisition on the Orbitrap Lumos utilized a standard data-dependent acquisition scheme. Specifically, the Orbitrap Lumos was globally set to use a positive ion spray voltage of 2200V, an ion transfer tube temperature of 275°C, a default charge state of 2, advanced precursor determination activated, and an RF Lens setting of 45%. MS1 survey scans covered a mass range of 375-1400m/z at a resolution of 60,000 with an automatic gain control (AGC) target of 4e5 (100%) and the injection time set to 'Auto'. Precursors for tandem MS/MS (MS2) analysis were selected using monoisotopic precursor selection ('Peptide' mode), charge state filtering (2-4z), dynamic exclusion (20 ppm low and high, 60s duration, exclude isotopes = TRUE, exclude within cycle = TRUE), and an intensity threshold of 2.5e4. MS2 scans were carried out in the Orbitrap at a resolution of 30,000 using a higher-energy collision dissociation setting of 30%, an AGC target of 2e5 (400%), injection time set to 'Auto', and an isolation window setting of 1.6m/z. The total allowable MS2 cycle time was set to 3s. MS1 data were acquired in profile mode, and MS2 in centroid.

MS Data Analysis

DDA-MS raw data were analyzed using FragPipe software (version 21.1) with MSFragger (version 4.0) using the default workflow settings (PMID: 28394336). Specifically, raw data files were searched using MSFragger against a representative human proteome fasta database (version 05/2024, 20,467 entries, includes non-human contaminants) using precursor and fragment tolerances of 20 parts-per million (PPM), a fixed modification of 57.02146 at C, and variable modifications of 15.9949 at M and 42.0106 at protein N-termini. Matching spectra were rescored using MSBooster and peptide spectral match (PSM) validation utilized Percolator prior to ProteinProphet scoring to support filtering at <1% FDR at the PSM, peptide, and protein levels. Peptides were quantified using the IonQuant package built into FragPipe with the default settings. Resulting data were parsed to facilitate comparisons and final reporting using R.  


