# Example text for manuscripts <!-- omit in toc -->

This document contains example text for a data-independent proteomics run performed in the BMS. You should confirm with the BMS if you have used this type of method and any modifications that may have been made to the analysis routine (e.g. length of analysis). Locations denoted with 'PMID' are PubMed references that should be inserted for the specific methods or tools in question. 

## Method text

Sample preparation for MS-based proteomics

Protein was extracted from cell pellets using 150μL of a solution of 20mM TrisCl pH 7.5, 150mM KCl, 5mM MgCl2, 0.5% (v/v) NP⁃40, 0.5% (w/v) sodium deoxycholate, and 0.5X cOmplete protease inhibitor (Sigma). To support degradation of DNA/RNA, 10μL of a nuclease solution (1U/μL benzonase) was added to the tissue solution and incubated at 24°C for 10-minutes. After nuclease digestion, 50μL of a solution of 600mM TrisCl pH 7.5, 8% (w/v) SDS, and 10mM dithiothreitol (DTT) was added to the tissue lysate and incubated at 95°C for 5-minutes in a heating block. After cooling to 24°C, lysates were alkylated using 20mM chloroacetamide (final concentration) and subsequently quenched with DTT. Protein concentration of the resulting lysate was measured using an EZQ assay (Thermo Scientific). Protein cleanup prior to digestion was carried out using an adapted version of the previously described SP3 protocol (PMID: 25358341). Briefly, 10μL of a 50mg/mL carboxylate-coated bead stock (Cytiva) was added to 40μg of protein in 100μL of solution followed by 400μL of acetone to support precipitation on the bead surface (PMID: 32195589). After a 5-minute incubation at 24°C, mixtures were centrifuged for 5-minutes at 5,000 x g. Resulting supernatants were discarded and pelleted material was resuspended in 800μL of 80% ethanol and pelleted again as above. The ethanol supernatant was removed and 1μg of trypsin/LysC (Promega, CAT#V5071) in 100μL of 100mM Tris-Cl pH 7.5 with 1mM CaCl2. After digestion, the supernatant was collected after centrifugation at 12,000 x g for 2-minutes and subsequently desalted using C18 HLB SPE (Waters) micro-elution plates. SPE wells were initially conditioned with 100% (v/v) acetonitrile (100μL) followed by equilibration with 0.1% (v/v) trifluoroacetic acid (TFA, Thermo Scientific) (100μL). Loaded peptides were rinsed using 4% (v/v) acetonitrile in 0.1% (v/v) formic acid (Thermo Scientific) (200μL) and eluted using 60% (v/v) acetonitrile in 0.1% (v/v) formic acid (100μL). All SPE steps were carried out using a vacuum manifold. Eluted peptides were evaporated to dryness in a SpeedVac centrifuge and reconstituted in a solution of 1% dimethylsulfoxide (v/v) in 1% (v/v) formic acid. Reconstituted peptide solutions were quantified on a NanoDrop spectrophotometer using measured signal relative to a standard of known concentration. 

MS Data Acquisition 

Data independent (DIA)-MS analysis was carried out on an Orbitrap Lumos instrument interfaced to a Waters M-Class liquid chromatography (LC) system. For analysis, peptide samples were initially trapped on a pre-column (ACQUITY UPLC M-Class Symmetry C18 Trap, 180µm x 2cm, 5µm beads, Waters) and then separated by an analytical column (nanoEase M/Z Peptide BEH C18, 75µm x 25cm, 1.7µm beads, Waters). Samples were initially trapped for 3-minutes at a flow rate of 20µL/min of 1% mobile phase B (0.1% formic acid in acetonitrile). Gradient separation of trapped peptides started at an initial condition of 3% mobile phase B, ramped to 7% B in 1-minute, to 28% B in 25-minutes, to 80% B in 0.5-minutes, hold at 80% B for 2-minutes, ramp to 3% B in 0.5-minutes, and a final hold at 3% B for 11-minutes for a total run time of 40-minutes (mobile phase A = 0.1% formic acid in water, flow rate = 300nL/min). For analysis on the Orbitrap Lumos, each peptide sample was injected three individual times (40-minute acquisition time for each), with each acquisition covering analysis of a separate mass range (injection 1 = 430 - 550, 2 = 550 - 690, 3 = 690 – 930 m/z). Specifically, the Orbitrap Lumos MS was globally set to use a positive ion spray voltage of 2200 V, an ion transfer tube temperature of 275°C, a default charge state of 3, and an RF Lens setting of 45%. The complete duty cycle of the acquisition method consisted of two MS1 scans and two sets of windowed MS2 scans (order MS1 - MS2 - MS1 - MS2). For the first, low mass range injection, the initial MS1 scan covered a mass range of 425-555m/z at a resolution of 60,000 with an AGC target of 4e5 (100%) and a max injection time set to ‘Auto’. The following set of DIA MS2 scans covered a precursor range of 430-550m/z with an isolation window size of 4m/z (0m/z overlap) for a total of 30 scan events. Each scan used an HCD energy of 30% and covered a defined mass range of 200-1800m/z at a resolution of 30,000 with a normalized AGC target of 1000%, and the maximum injection time set to ‘Auto’. Loop control was set to ‘N’ with a value of 30 spectra. The next MS1 scan and following DIA MS2 used the same settings as the previous with the exception that the MS2 precursor mass range was set to 428-552m/z to give a 2m/z stagger with the previous scan windows. For the second, medium mass range injection, the scan settings were the same as for the low mass injection with the following changes: 1. MS1 scan range of 545-695m/z; 2. DIA-MS2 precursor scan ranges of 550-690m/z and 548-692m/z; 3. Loop control number of spectra = 35. For the third, high mass range injection, the scan settings were the same as the others with the following changes: 1. MS1 scan range of 685-935m/z; 2. DIA-MS2 precursor scan ranges of 690-930m/z and 686-934m/z; 3. DIA-MS2 isolation window of 8m/z; 4. Loop control number of spectra = 30. All scan data were acquired in centroid mode.
