# Example text for manuscripts <!-- omit in toc -->

This document contains example text for a data-dependent proteomics run performed in the BMS. 

## Method text

Sample preparation for MS-based proteomics

Excised gel bands were cut into 1mm cubes and incubated in destain solution (100mM ammonium bicarbonate, 20% (v/v) acetonitrile) until clear. Destained gel pieces were dehydrated using acetonitrile and subsequently rehydrated using a solution of 1mM tris(2-carboxyethyl)phosphine and 4mM chloroacetamide and incubate for 30-minutes at room temperature (+21C). Excess solution was discarded and gel pieces dehydrated using acetonitrile, rehydrated with 100mM ammonium bicarbonate, and dehydrated again with acetonitrile. For digestion, gel pieces were rehydrated with a solution of 100mM ammonium bicarbonate containing 100ng of trpysin/rLysC (Promega) and incubated at +37C for 16-hours in a Thermomixer (1000rpm). After digestion, peptides were extracted from the gel pieces using two incubations in 1% formic acid, and one in acetonitrile. Each extraction step was carried out in a bath sonicator for 5-minutes. Recovered peptide solutions were concentrated using a SpeedVac and reconstituted in 0.1% (v/v) trifluoroacetic acid. Reconstituted peptides were desalted prior to mass spectrometry analysis using StageTips. Packed StageTips (2-discs, Empore C18) wells were initially conditioned with 100% (v/v) methanol (100μL) followed by equilibration with 0.1% (v/v) trifluoroacetic acid (100μL). Loaded peptides were rinsed using 4% (v/v) methanol in 0.1% (v/v) formic acid (200μL) and eluted using 60% (v/v) methanol in 0.1% (v/v) formic acid (100μL). All StageTip steps were carried out using a centrifuge with spinning at 250 x g. Eluted peptides were evaporated to dryness in a SpeedVac centrifuge and reconstituted in a solution of 1% dimethylsulfoxide (v/v) in 1% (v/v) formic acid.

MS Data Acquisition

Data dependent mass spectrometry analysis was carried out on an Orbitrap Lumos instrument interfaced to an UltiMate 3000 liquid chromatography (LC) system. For analysis, peptide samples were directly separated by an analytical column (75µm x 15cm 1.8µm bioZen Peptide XB-C18 beads). The gradient ramped from an initial starting condition of 5% mobile phase B (80% acetonitrile, 0.1% formic acid) to 32% B over 39.5-minutes, with sample pickup and column equilibration using an additional 15.5-minutes (45-minute total run time, mobile phase A = 0.1% formic acid in water). Data acquisition on the Orbitrap Lumos utilized a standard data-dependent acquisition scheme. Specifically, the Orbitrap Lumos was globally set to use a positive ion spray voltage of 2200V, an ion transfer tube temperature of 275°C, a default charge state of 2, advanced precursor determination activated, and an RF Lens setting of 45%. MS1 survey scans covered a mass range of 375-1400m/z at a resolution of 60,000 with an automatic gain control (AGC) target of 4e5 (100%) and the injection time set to 'Auto'. Precursors for tandem MS/MS (MS2) analysis were selected using monoisotopic precursor selection ('Peptide' mode), charge state filtering (2-4z), dynamic exclusion (20 ppm low and high, 60s duration, exclude isotopes = TRUE, exclude within cycle = TRUE), and an intensity threshold of 2.5e4. MS2 scans were carried out in the Orbitrap at a resolution of 30,000 using a higher-energy collision dissociation setting of 30%, an AGC target of 2e5 (400%), injection time set to 'Auto', and an isolation window setting of 1.6m/z. The total allowable MS2 cycle time was set to 3s. MS1 data were acquired in profile mode, and MS2 in centroid.

MS Data Analysis

DDA-MS raw data were analyzed using FragPipe software (version 22.0) with MSFragger (version 4.1) using the default workflow settings (PMID: 28394336). Specifically, raw data files were searched using MSFragger against a representative Vibrio parahaemolyticus proteome fasta database (NCBI taxonomy 223926, version 06/2024, 13,642 entries, includes contaminants) using precursor and fragment tolerances of 20 parts-per million (PPM), a fixed modification of 57.02146 at C, and variable modifications of 15.9949 at M and 42.0106 at protein N-termini. Matching spectra were rescored using MSBooster and peptide spectral match (PSM) validation utilized Percolator prior to ProteinProphet scoring to support filtering at <1% FDR at the PSM, peptide, and protein levels. Peptides were quantified using the IonQuant package built into FragPipe with the default settings. Resulting data were parsed to facilitate comparisons and final reporting using R.  


