# Example text for manuscripts <!-- omit in toc -->

This document contains example text for a targeted metabolomics run performed in the BMS. 

## Method text

Mass spectrometry analysis

Metabolites were extracted from an aliquot of 50µL of plasma using Captiva EMR-Lipid wellplates (Agilent Technologies) on a vacuum manifold. Prior to extraction, each sample was spiked with a mixture of isotopically labeled amino acids (Cambridge Isotopes, CAT#MSK-A2-1.2). EMR wells were preconditioned using 600µL of a mixture of 2:1:1 water/methanol/ethanol. The plasma aliquot was added to the wells and 225µL of 1:1 methanol/ethanol was added and pipette mixed with incubation for 10-minutes at room temperature. To each well, 225µL of water was added and the supernatant filtered through the well and the flowthrough was collected. Wells were rinsed twice with 2:1:1 water/methanol/ethanol and combined with the previous flowthrough. Samples were dried in a SpeedVac and reconstituted in 60% acetonitrile in water prior to mass spectrometry analysis. Targeted mass spectrometry analysis was carried out on a QTRAP5500 instrument interfaced to an Agilent 1290 Infinity II liquid chromatography (LC) system controlled using Analyst software (version 1.6.3). For analysis, samples were directly separated by an analytical column (2.1mm x 150mm, ACQUITY Premier BEH Amide 1.7µm, Waters) at a flow rate of 0.25mL/min. For analyte elution the gradient held at an initial starting condition of 100% mobile phase B (95% acetonitrile, 5% water, 5mM ammonium acetate, 5mM ammonium hydroxide) for 2-minutes before ramping to 10% B over 2.5 minutes and holding for 1-minute, ramping to 100% B over 0.5-minutes with a final equilibration at 100% B for 4-minutes (total run time of 10-minutes, mobile phase A = 95% water, 5% acetonitrile, 5mM ammonium acetate, 5mM ammonium hydroxide). Data acquisition on the QTRAP5500 utilized a targeted selected reaction monitoring (SRM) acquisition scheme at 'unit' resolution in both positive and negative polarity modes. Positive mode used a curtain gas setting of 20, CAD gas of 5, ion spray voltage of 5500V, temperature of 350, gas 1 of 55, gas 2 of 60, declustering potential of 100, entrance potential of 10, and cell exit potential of 20. Negative mode used the same settings as positive with the exceptions of ion spray voltage of -4500V, declustering potential of -100, entrance potential of -10, cell exit potential of -20. All targeted method transitions can be found in the method tables.

