# Example text for manuscripts <!-- omit in toc -->

This document contains example text for a data-dependent proteomics run performed in the BMS. 

## Method text

Mass Spectrometry Analysis

To desalt peptides prior to mass spectrometry (MS) analysis, an HPLC system (Agilent 1290 Infinity II with a DAD module) equipped with a reversed-phase column (Kinetix F5 1.7μm, 2.1x50mm, Phenomenex) was utilized. Specifically, peptides were injected to a column equilibrated at 4% mobile phase B (0.1% formic acid in acetonitrile), rinsed for 3-minutes at a flow rate of 0.3mL/min, and subsequently eluted for at 60% mobile phase B (mobile phase A = 0.1% formic acid in water). Desalted peptides were dried in a SpeedVac centrifuge and reconstituted in 1% (v/v) formic acid in water at a concentration of 1μg/μL based on the 254nm UV signal from the HPLC desalting step.     

Data dependent (DDA)-MS analysis was carried out on an Orbitrap Lumos instrument interfaced to a Waters M-Class liquid chromatography (LC) system. For analysis, peptide samples were initially trapped on a pre-column (ACQUITY UPLC M-Class Symmetry C18 Trap, 180µm x 2cm, 5µm beads, Waters) and then separated by an analytical column (nanoEase M/Z Peptide BEH C18, 75µm x 25cm, 1.7µm beads, Waters). Samples were initially trapped for 3-minutes at a flow rate of 20µL/min of 1% mobile phase B (0.1% formic acid in acetonitrile). Gradient separation of trapped peptides started at an initial condition of 1% mobile phase B, ramped to 8% B in 1-minute, to 30% B in 45-minutes, to 80% B in 0.5-minutes, hold at 80% B for 2-minutes, ramp to 1% B in 0.5-minutes, and a final hold at 3% B for 11-minutes for a total run time of 60-minutes (mobile phase A = 0.1% formic acid in water, flow rate = 300nL/min). Data acquisition on the Orbitrap Lumos utilized a standard data-dependent acquisition scheme. Specifically, the Orbitrap Lumos was globally set to use a positive ion spray voltage of 2000V, an ion transfer tube temperature of 275°C, a default charge state of 2, advanced precursor determination activated, and an RF Lens setting of 45%. MS1 survey scans covered a mass range of 350-1600m/z at a resolution of 60,000 with an automatic gain control (AGC) target of 4e5 (100%) and the injection time set to 'Auto'. Precursors for tandem MS/MS (MS2) analysis were selected using monoisotopic precursor selection ('Peptide' mode), charge state filtering (1-4z), dynamic exclusion (10 ppm low and high, 60s duration, exclude isotopes = TRUE, exclude within cycle = TRUE), and an intensity threshold of 5e4. MS2 scans were carried out in the Orbitrap at a resolution of 30,000 using a higher-energy collision dissociation setting of 30%, an AGC target of 1.2e5 (240%), injection time set to 'Custom' (54ms), and an isolation window setting of 1.6m/z. The total allowable MS2 cycle time was set to 3s. MS1 data were acquired in profile mode, and MS2 in centroid. DDA-MS raw data were analyzed using FragPipe software (version 23.0) with MSFragger (version 4.3) using the non-specific peptidome workflow settings (PMID: 28394336). Specifically, raw data files were searched using MSFragger against a representative bovine proteome fasta database (version 07/2025, 20,460 entries, includes contaminants) using precursor and fragment tolerances of 20 parts-per million (PPM), and variable modifications of 15.9949 at M, 42.0106 at protein N-termini, -17.0265 at Q, -18,0106 at E, and -0.98402 at C-termini. Peptide spectral match (PSM) validation utilized Percolator prior to ProteinProphet scoring to support filtering at <1% FDR at the PSM level.    


