# Example text for manuscripts <!-- omit in toc -->

This document contains example text for a data-independent proteomics run performed in the BMS. You should confirm with the BMS if you have used this type of method and any modifications that may have been made to the analysis routine (e.g. length of analysis). Locations denoted with 'PMID' are PubMed references that should be inserted for the specific methods or tools in question. 

## Method text

Mass Spectrometry Analysis

Purified proteins on beads were reconstituted in 100μL of digestion solution (100mM ammonium bicarbonate, 1mM CaCl2) containing 500ng of trypsin/rLysC mix (Promega) and incubated at 37°C for 16-hours in a Thermomixer with mixing at 800rpm. After digestion, peptides were centrifuged at 12,000g for 2-minutes and the supernatant recovered to a fresh tube containing 5μL of a 10% (v/v) solution of trifluoroacetic acid. To desalt peptides prior to mass spectrometry (MS) analysis, an HPLC system (Agilent 1290 Infinity II with a DAD module) equipped with a reversed-phase column (CORTECS T3 1.6μm, 2.1x50mm, Waters) was utilized. Specifically, peptides were injected to a column equilibrated at 4% mobile phase B (0.1% formic acid in acetonitrile), rinsed for 1.5-minutes at a flow rate of 1mL/min, and subsequently eluted for 0.8-minutes at 80% mobile phase B (mobile phase A = 0.1% formic acid in water). Desalted peptides were dried in a SpeedVac centrifuge and reconstituted in 1% (v/v) formic acid in water at a concentration of 1μg/μL based on the 214nm UV signal from the HPLC desalting step. Peptide samples were analyzed using a data-independent acquisition (DIA) acquisition routine on an Orbitrap Fusion Lumos mass spectrometer (MS) (Thermo Scientific). Samples were introduced to the MS using a M-Class liquid chromatography (LC) instrument (Waters) equipped with a trapping-analytical column setup. For injection, peptides were initially trapped on a pre-column (ACQUITY UPLC M-Class Symmetry C18 Trap, 180µm x 2cm, 5µm beads, Waters) and then separated by an analytical column (nanoEase M/Z Peptide BEH C18, 75µm x 25cm, 1.7µm beads, Waters). Samples were initially trapped for 3-minutes at a flow rate of 20µL/min of 1% mobile phase B (0.1% formic acid in acetonitrile). Gradient separation of trapped peptides started at an initial condition of 1% mobile phase B, ramped to 8% B in 1-minute, to 30% B in 45-minutes, to 80% B in 0.5-minutes, hold at 80% B for 2-minutes, ramp to 1% B in 0.5-minutes, and a final hold at 3% B for 11-minutes for a total run time of 60-minutes (mobile phase A = 0.1% formic acid in water, flow rate = 300nL/min). Data acquisition on the Orbitrap Lumos utilized a standard data-dependent acquisition scheme. Specifically, the Orbitrap Lumos was globally set to use a positive ion spray voltage of 1800V, an ion transfer tube temperature of 275°C, a default charge state of 2, advanced precursor determination activated, and an RF Lens setting of 45%. MS1 survey scans covered a mass range of 400-1600m/z at a resolution of 120,000 with an automatic gain control (AGC) target of 4e5 (100%) and the injection time set to 'Auto'. Precursors for tandem MS/MS (MS2) analysis were selected using monoisotopic precursor selection ('Peptide' mode), charge state filtering (2-4z), dynamic exclusion (10 ppm low and high, 60s duration, exclude isotopes = TRUE, exclude within cycle = TRUE), and an intensity threshold of 2.5e4. MS2 scans were carried out in the Orbitrap at a resolution of 30,000 using a higher-energy collision dissociation setting of 30%, an AGC target of 2e5 (400%), injection time set to 'Custom' (54ms), and an isolation window setting of 1.6m/z. The total allowable MS2 cycle time was set to 3s. MS1 data were acquired in profile mode, and MS2 in centroid. Resulting data were analyzed using FragPipe software (version 23.0) with MSFragger (version 4.3) using the default workflow settings (PMID: 28394336). Specifically, raw data files were searched using MSFragger against a representative Homo sapiens proteome fasta database (Uniprot version 08/2025, 40,910 entries, 20,455 decoys, includes contaminants) using precursor and fragment tolerances of 20 parts-per million (PPM), a fixed modification of 57.02146 at C, and variable modifications of 15.9949 at M and 42.0106 at protein N-termini. Matching spectra were rescored using MSBooster and peptide spectral match (PSM) validation utilized Percolator prior to ProteinProphet scoring to support filtering at <1% FDR at the PSM, peptide, and protein levels. Peptides were quantified using the IonQuant package built into FragPipe with the default settings. Resulting data were parsed to facilitate comparisons and final reporting using R. 
