# Example text for manuscripts <!-- omit in toc -->

This document contains example text for a data-independent proteomics run performed in the BMS. You should confirm with the BMS if you have used this type of method and any modifications that may have been made to the analysis routine (e.g. length of analysis). Locations denoted with 'PMID' are PubMed references that should be inserted for the specific methods or tools in question. 

## Method text

Sample preparation for MS-based proteomics

For protein extraction from conditioned medium, collected material was initially precipitated using 4-volumes of acetone. Protein was extracted from purified conditioned medium and exosome material using 75μL of a solution of 50mM TrisCl pH 7.5, 75mM KCl, 5mM MgCl2, 0.5% (v/v) NP⁃40, 0.5% (w/v) sodium deoxycholate, and 0.5X cOmplete protease inhibitor (Sigma). To support degradation of DNA/RNA, 10μL of a nuclease solution (1U/μL benzonase) was added to the lysate and incubated at 24°C for 10-minutes. After nuclease digestion, 25μL of a solution of 600mM TrisCl pH 7.5, 8% (w/v) SDS, and 40mM dithiothreitol (DTT) was added to the tissue lysate and incubated at 60°C for 15-minutes in a heating block. After cooling to 24°C, the protein concentration of the resulting lysates was measured using an EZ-Q assay (Thermo Scientific). Protein cleanup prior to digestion was carried out using an adapted version of the previously described SP3 protocol (PMID: 25358341). Briefly, 10μL of a 50mg/mL carboxylate-coated bead stock (Cytiva) was added to 10μg of protein in 100μL of solution followed by 400μL of acetone to support precipitation on the bead surface (PMID: 32195589). After a 5-minute incubation at 24°C, mixtures were centrifuged for 5-minutes at 5,000 x g. Resulting supernatants were discarded and pelleted material was resuspended in 800μL of 80% ethanol and pelleted again as above. The ethanol supernatant was removed and 1μg of trypsin/LysC (Promega, CAT#V5071) in 100μL of 1M ammonium bicarbonate with 1mM CaCl2 was added to each sample and incubated at 37°C for 16-hours with shaking at 800 rpm. After digestion, 10uL of a solution of 150mM DTT was added and samples incubated for 15-minutes at 37°C. After the DTT incubation, 10μL of a solution of 400mM iodoacetamide was added and samples incubated for 15-minutes at 37°C. The supernatant was collected after centrifugation at 12,000 x g for 2-minutes and 10μL of a solution of 10% (v/v) trifluoracetic acid was added. Prepared samples were then desalted using an Agilent 1290 Infinity II system equipped with a DAD. Specifically, the desalting column (CORTECS T3 2.7μm, 2.1x50mm, Waters) was equilibrated to 99% mobile phase A (water + 0.1% formic acid) and 1% mobile phase B (acetonitrile + 0.1% formic acid) and the sample injected using a manual injection equipped with a 500μL loop. The sample was loaded to the column and eluted using a pulse of 60% mobile phase B, prior to a column flush and re-equilibration. Desalted samples were concentrated using a SpeedVac and reconstituted in a solution of 1% formic acid at an approximate concentration of 1μg/μL based on the signal from the DAD trace. 

MS Data Acquisition 

Peptide samples and fractions were analyzed using a data-independent acquisition (DIA) acquisition routine on an Orbitrap Fusion Lumos mass spectrometer (MS) (Thermo Scientific). Samples were introduced to the MS using an ACQUITY M-Class liquid chromatography (LC) instrument (Waters) equipped with a trapping-analytical column setup. For injection, peptides were initially trapped at 20μL/min for 3-minutes using 99% mobile phase A (0.1% formic acid) on a 180μm inner diameter x 20mm length column (Symmetry C18, 5μm, Waters). Gradient elution of peptides was performed using a ramp of mobile phase B (100% v/v acetonitrile in 0.1% formic acid) on a 75μm inner diameter x 250mm length analytical column (Peptide BEH, 1.7μm, Waters). For each injection, 1μg of peptides in 1μL were separated with an 40⁃minute LC linear gradient from 3% to 7% mobile phase B in 1-minute, and to 28% B in 25-minutes at 300nL/min, followed by rinsing and re-equilibration over the remaining 15-minutes. The analytical column outlet was coupled to a 20μm inner diameter LOTUS electrospray tip (Fossil Ion Tech.). Each peptide sample was injected three individual times (40-minute acquisition time for each), with each acquisition covering analysis of a separate mass range (injection 1 = 430 - 550, 2 = 550 - 670, 3 = 670 – 910 m/z). Specifically, the Orbitrap Lumos MS was globally set to use a positive ion spray voltage of 2200 V, an ion transfer tube temperature of 275°C, a default charge state of 3, and an RF Lens setting of 45%. The complete duty cycle of the acquisition method consisted of two MS1 scans and two sets of windowed MS2 scans (order MS1 - MS2 - MS1 - MS2). For the first, low mass range injection, the initial MS1 scan covered a mass range of 420-560m/z at a resolution of 30,000 with an AGC target of 4e5 (100%) and a max injection time set to ‘Custom’ (54ms). The following set of DIA MS2 scans covered a precursor range of 430-550m/z with an isolation window size of 4m/z (0m/z overlap) for a total of 30 scan events. Each scan used an HCD energy of 30% and covered a defined mass range of 200-1800m/z at a resolution of 30,000 with a normalized AGC target of 1000%, and the maximum injection time set to ‘Custom’ (54ms). Loop control was set to ‘N’ with a value of 30 spectra. The next MS1 scan and following DIA MS2 used the same settings as the previous with the exception that the MS2 precursor mass range was set to 428-552m/z to give a 2m/z stagger with the previous scan windows. For the second, medium mass range injection, the scan settings were the same as for the low mass injection with the following changes: 1. MS1 scan range of 540-680m/z; 2. DIA-MS2 precursor scan ranges of 550-670m/z and 548-672m/z; 3. Loop control number of spectra = 30. For the third, high mass range injection, the scan settings were the same as the others with the following changes: 1. MS1 scan range of 680-920m/z; 2. DIA-MS2 precursor scan ranges of 690-910m/z and 686-914m/z; 3. DIA-MS2 isolation window of 8m/z; 4. Loop control number of spectra = 30. All scan data were acquired in centroid mode.

MS Data Analysis

DIA-MS raw data were de-multiplexed using msconvert (ProteoWizard, version 3.0.23304-e66e43d, peakPicking = ‘vendor’, demultiplex = overlap only, 10ppm, SIM as spectra) and processed using DIA-NN (version 1.9.2) (PMID: 31768060). Specifically, a representative human proteome fasta database (version 12/2024, 20,454 entries, includes non-human contaminants) was provided to DIA-NN to perform an initial spectral library generation step with MBR disabled (--gen-spec-lib --predictor --fasta-search --min-fr-mz 200 --max-fr-mz 1800 --met-excision --min-pep-len 7 --max-pep-len 30 --min-pr-mz 430 --max-pr-mz 910 --min-pr-charge 2 --max-pr-charge 4 --cut K*,R* --missed-cleavages 1 --unimod4 --relaxed-prot-inf --rt-profiling). Afterwards, a representative collection raw files for each mass range were searched to obtain suitable mass errors (--individual-windows). Using the obtained mass error settings, raw files for each mass range were searched against the generated spectral library. Resulting report files were passed to the iq package (Lib.Q.Value = 0.01, Lib.PG.Q.Value = 0.01, normalization = median) in R to generate estimates of protein abundance (PMID: 31909781). 
