# Example text for manuscripts <!-- omit in toc -->

This document contains example text for a data-dependent proteomics run performed in the BMS. 

## Method text

Acid-eluted peptides were desalted using Oasis HLB 96-well micro-elution well plates (2mg sorbent per well, Waters) on a vacuum manifold device. Wells were initially rinsed with 600µL of methanol followed by equilibration with 600µL of 0.1% (v/v) triflouroacetic acid (TFA) in water. Prepared wells were loaded with sample and rinsed with 600µL of 2% (v/v) methanol in water with 0.1% (v/v) formic acid. Elution was performed with 400µL of 60% methanol (v/v) in water with 0.1% (v/v) formic acid. Eluted samples were dried using a SpeedVac concentrator and reconstituted in 100mM HEPES pH 8.3 in water. Peptide concentrations in each sample were determined using the Pierce Quantitative Colorimetric Peptide Assay according to the manufacturer's instructions. The resulting peptide amounts were normalized and labeled using 6-plex tandem mass tag (TMT) reagents. TMT reagents were reconstituted at a concentration of 10µg/µL in acetonitrile and added to each sample to reach a µg:µg ratio of 2:1 (TMT reagent:sample peptide) and incubated for 20-minutes at room temperature. This addition and incubation was repeated once to achieve a final TMT reagent to sample peptide ratio of 4:1. TMT labeling reactions were quenched by addition of 1M TrisCl pH 7.5. Replicate samples were labeled in channels TMT126C, TMT128C, TMT129C or TMT127N, TMT129N, TMT131N to minimize interference from channel cross-talk. Labeled peptides were concentrated in a SpeedVac centrifuge and reconstituted in 0.1% (v/v) TFA in water. Reconstituted peptides were combined and desalted as above using a Strata-X SPE cartridge (10mg, Phenomenex) prior to SpeedVac concentration and reconstitution in 1% (v/v) DMSO, 1% (v/v) formic acid in water.

MS Data Acquisition

DDA-MS analysis was carried out on an Orbitrap Lumos instrument interfaced to an UltiMate 3000 liquid chromatography (LC) system. For analysis, peptide samples were initially trapped on a pre-column (75µm x 3cm, 1.9µm C18 Reprosil-Pur Basic beads from Dr. Maisch) and then separated by an analytical column (75µm x 25cm with an integrated nanospray tip, 1.9µm C18 Reprosil-Pur Basic beads). The gradient ramped from an initial starting condition of 5% mobile phase B (80% acetonitrile, 0.1% formic acid) to 34% B over 23-minutes, to 95% B in 0.5-minutes with a 2-minute hold, to 5% B in 0.5-minutes with a 4-minute hold. Sample pickup and column equilibration used an additional 15-minutes (45-minute total run time, mobile phase A = 0.1% formic acid in water). Data acquisition on the Orbitrap Lumos utilized a standard data-dependent acquisition scheme. Specifically, the Orbitrap Lumos was globally set to use a positive ion spray voltage of 2200V, an ion transfer tube temperature of 275°C, a default charge state of 2, advanced precursor determination activated, and an RF Lens setting of 45%. MS1 survey scans covered a mass range of 375-1400m/z at a resolution of 60,000 with an automatic gain control (AGC) target of 4e5 (100%) and the injection time set to 'Auto'. Precursors for tandem MS/MS (MS2) analysis were selected using monoisotopic precursor selection ('Peptide' mode), charge state filtering (1-5z), dynamic exclusion (20 ppm low and high, 60s duration, exclude isotopes = TRUE, exclude within cycle = TRUE), and an intensity threshold of 2.5e4. MS2 scans were carried out in the Orbitrap at a resolution of 30,000 using a higher-energy collision dissociation setting of 30%, an AGC target of 2e5 (400%), injection time set to 'Auto', and an isolation window setting of 1.6m/z. The total allowable MS2 cycle time was set to 3s. MS1 data were acquired in profile mode, and MS2 in centroid.

The resulting MS data were analyzed using FragPipe (version 21.1) with MSFragger (version 4.0), IonQuant (version 1.10.12), and Philosopher (version 5.1.0). Data were searched against the UniProt Human database concatenated with common contaminant proteins (downloaded on April 21, 2024; 40,934 total entries, 20,467 decoys). FragPipe was configured to use the 'Nonspecific-HLA' default settings without cysteine alkylation. Cysteinylation (+119.0041@C) and oxidation (+15.9949@M) were set as variable modifications. Precursor and fragment mass tolerances were set to 20ppm. Peptide spectral match and peptide outputs were filtered to 1% FDR based on validation using Percolator. 

