# Example text for manuscripts <!-- omit in toc -->

This document contains example text for an untargeted metabolomics run performed in the BMS. 

## Method text

Powdered hydrolysate was reconstituted in water at a concentration of 1ug/uL. From this resuspension, 60uL of solution was used for metabolite extraction. Metabolites were extracted through the addition of 240uL of extraction solution (40/40/20 methanol/acetonitrile/1% formic acid containing 3uL of a 2X diluted isotope labeled amino acid standard - Cambridge Isotopes, CAT#MSK-A2). Mixtures were incubated at -20C for 1 hour and centrifuged at 12,000g to recover the supernatant. At this stage, to generate a pooled sample, a volume equivalent of the total volume in each tube divided by the total number of samples was transferred to a separate tube. The supernatant was dried in a SpeedVac centrifuge and reconstituted in 100uL of water. From each sample, 10uL of the reconstituted mixture transferred to a vial for MS analysis and diluted with an additional 40uL of water. The reconstitution volume was based on a dilution level determined by prior analysis of the pooled sample. 

Untargeted mass spectrometry analysis of extracted metabolites was carried out on a QExactive instrument interfaced to a Vanquish liquid chromatography (LC) system. For analysis, carotenoid samples were directly separated by an analytical column (Zorbax SB-CN Rapid Resolution HD, 1.8um, 2.1x150mm, Agilent) at a flow rate of 0.2mL/min. The gradient ramped from an initial starting condition of a 2-minute hold at 1% mobile phase B (0.1% formic acid in methanol) to 15% B in 10-minutes, to 60% B in 3-minutes, to 100% B in 4.9-minutes, hold at 100% B for 2-minutes, ramp to 1% B in 0.1-minutes, and hold at 1% B for 5-minutes (mobile phase A = 0.1% formic acid in water). Data analysis on the QExactive utilized a data-dependent acquisition scheme with global settings of 3700 for positive ion spray voltage (-3500 for negative ion spray), 300C for capillary temperature, 45 sheath gas, 15 aux gas, 2 spare gas, an S-Lens RF level of 45, and a probe heater temp of 250C. The QExactive was set to acquire MS1 scans at a resolution of 35K, an automatic gain control target (AGC) of 3e6, and a maximum injection time of 100ms across a scan range of 75 - 900m/z in positive mode. Dependent MS2 scans were triggered based on a minimum AGC target of 8e3, a dynamic exclusion setting of 10s, and inclusion of charge state 1. MS2 scans utilized an isolation window of 2m/z, 17,500 resolution, an AGC target of 1e5, a maximum injection time of 50ms, a loop count of 10, normalized collision energies of 20 and 35, and a scan range of 200 - 2000m/z. All MS1 scans were obtained in profile mode, and MS2 in centroid. 

