# Example text for manuscripts <!-- omit in toc -->

This document contains example text for a data-independent proteomics run performed in the BMS. You should confirm with the BMS if you have used this type of method and any modifications that may have been made to the analysis routine (e.g. length of analysis). Locations denoted with 'PMID' are PubMed references that should be inserted for the specific methods or tools in question. 

## Method text

Mass Spectrometry Analysis

Protein was extracted from cell pellets using 150μL of a solution of 20mM TrisCl pH 7.5, 150mM KCl, 5mM MgCl2, 0.5% (v/v) NP⁃40, 0.5% (w/v) sodium deoxycholate, and 0.5X cOmplete protease inhibitor (Sigma). To support degradation of DNA/RNA, 10μL of a nuclease solution (1U/μL benzonase) was added to the solution and incubated at 24°C for 10-minutes. After nuclease digestion, 50μL of a solution of 600mM TrisCl pH 7.5, 8% (w/v) SDS, and 10mM dithiothreitol (DTT) was added to the tissue lysate and incubated at 95°C for 5-minutes in a heating block. After cooling to 24°C, lysates were alkylated using 40mM chloroacetamide (final concentration) and subsequently quenched with DTT. Protein concentration of the resulting lysate was measured using a BCA assay (Thermo Scientific). Protein cleanup prior to digestion was carried out using an adapted version of the previously described SP3 protocol (PMID: 25358341, 30464214). Specifically, 1μL of a mixture of Sera-Mag carboxylate SpeedBeads (CAT#45152105050250 and CAT#65152105050250, prepared as 100mg/mL stock solution in water) was added to 50μg of protein for each sample prior to 4X volumes of acetone. Mixtures were incubated on a Thermomixer at 37°C for 5-minutes at 800rpm prior to centrifugation at 5,000g for 5-minutes. After spinning, the supernatant was discarded and beads rinsed using 800μL of an 80% (v/v) ethanol solution with pipetting to resuspend the beads. Mixteres were centrifuged at 5,000g for 5-minutes and the supernatant discarded prior to the addition of 1μg of trypsin/rLysC mix (Promega) in 100μL of digestion solution (100mM ammonium bicarbonate, 1mM CaCl2) and incubation at 37°C for 16-hours in a Thermomixer with mixing at 800rpm. After digestion, peptides were centrifuged at 12,000g for 2-minutes and the supernatant recovered to a fresh tube containing 5μL of a 10% (v/v) solution of trifluoroacetic acid. To desalt peptides prior to mass spectrometry (MS) analysis, an HPLC system (Agilent 1290 Infinity II with a DAD module) equipped with a reversed-phase column (CORTECS T3 1.6μm, 2.1x50mm, Waters) was utilized. Specifically, peptides were injected to a column equilibrated at 4% mobile phase B (0.1% formic acid in acetonitrile), rinsed for 1.5-minutes at a flow rate of 1mL/min, and subsequently eluted for 0.8-minutes at 80% mobile phase B (mobile phase A = 0.1% formic acid in water). Desalted peptides were dried in a SpeedVac centrifuge and reconstituted in 1% (v/v) formic acid in water at a concentration of 1μg/μL based on the 214nm UV signal from the HPLC desalting step. 

Peptide samples were analyzed using a data-independent acquisition (DIA) acquisition routine on an Orbitrap Fusion Lumos mass spectrometer (MS) (Thermo Scientific). Samples were introduced to the MS using an Dionex UltiMate liquid chromatography (LC) instrument (Thermo Scientific) equipped with a trapping-analytical column setup. For injection, peptides were initially trapped using 95% mobile phase A (0.1% formic acid) on a 100μm inner diameter x 3cm length column packed in-house with 1.9 μm Reprosil Pur C18 beads (Dr. Maisch, r119.aq.). Gradient elution of peptides was performed using a ramp of mobile phase B (80% v/v acetonitrile in 0.1% formic acid) on a 100μm inner diameter x 25 cm length analytical column packed with 1.9μm Reprosil Pur C18 beads. For each injection, 1μg of peptides were separated with an 80⁃minute LC linear gradient from 5% to 11% mobile phase B in 0.5-minutes, and to 34% B in 72.5-minutes at 400nL/min, followed by rinsing and re-equilibration over the remaining 7-minutes. The analytical column outlet was coupled to a 20μm inner diameter LOTUS electrospray tip (Fossil Ion Tech.). Each peptide sample was injected three individual times (80-minute acquisition time for each), with each acquisition covering analysis of a separate mass range (injection 1 = 430 - 550, 2 = 550 - 690, 3 = 690 – 930 m/z). Specifically, the Orbitrap Lumos MS was globally set to use a positive ion spray voltage of 2200 V, an ion transfer tube temperature of 275°C, a default charge state of 3, and an RF Lens setting of 45%. The complete duty cycle of the acquisition method consisted of two MS1 scans and two sets of windowed MS2 scans (order MS1 - MS2 - MS1 - MS2). For the first, low mass range injection, the initial MS1 scan covered a mass range of 425-555m/z at a resolution of 60,000 with an AGC target of 4e5 (100%) and a max injection time set to ‘Auto’. The following set of DIA MS2 scans covered a precursor range of 430-550m/z with an isolation window size of 4m/z (0m/z overlap) for a total of 30 scan events. Each scan used an HCD energy of 30% and covered a defined mass range of 200-1800m/z at a resolution of 30,000 with a normalized AGC target of 1000%, and the maximum injection time set to ‘Auto’. Loop control was set to ‘N’ with a value of 30 spectra. The next MS1 scan and following DIA MS2 used the same settings as the previous with the exception that the MS2 precursor mass range was set to 428-552m/z to give a 2m/z stagger with the previous scan windows. For the second, medium mass range injection, the scan settings were the same as for the low mass injection with the following changes: 1. MS1 scan range of 545-695m/z; 2. DIA-MS2 precursor scan ranges of 550-690m/z and 548-692m/z; 3. Loop control number of spectra = 35. For the third, high mass range injection, the scan settings were the same as the others with the following changes: 1. MS1 scan range of 685-935m/z; 2. DIA-MS2 precursor scan ranges of 690-930m/z and 686-934m/z; 3. DIA-MS2 isolation window of 8m/z; 4. Loop control number of spectra = 30. All scan data were acquired in centroid mode. DIA-MS raw data were de-multiplexed using msconvert (ProteoWizard, version 3.0.23304-e66e43d, peakPicking = ‘vendor’, demultiplex = overlap only, 10ppm, SIM as spectra) and processed using DIA-NN (version 1.8.1) (PMID: 31768060). Specifically, a representative human proteome fasta database (version 07/2024, 20,481 entries, includes non-human contaminants) was provided to DIA-NN along with all of the raw data in order to perform an initial spectral library generation step (default settings for library generation, --min-pr-mz 430 --max-pr-mz 930 --min-pr-charge 2 --max-pr-charge 4, MBR disabled). Afterwards, a subset of raw files for each mass range were searched together against this generated spectral library using DIA-NN with 'unrelated runs' activated to derive appropriate mass error and scan window settings. The entire set of raw riles for each mass range were then searched against the spectral library using the derived mass error and window settings with MBR enabled. Resulting report files were passed to the iq package (Lib.Q.Value = 0.01, Lib.PG.Q.Value = 0.01, Q.Value = 0.01, PG.Q.Value = 0.05) in R to generate estimates of protein abundance (PMID: 31909781). 
