# Example text for manuscripts <!-- omit in toc -->

This document contains example text for a targeted metabolomics run performed in the BMS. 

## Method text

A 10µL aliquot of sample material was initially spiked with 5µL of a stock solution of d9-phosphocholine (5µg/mL stock concentration prepared in water). For extraction, 90µL of a solution of ethanol/methanol/acetonitrile (20:20:60 percent by volume) was added, the tubes were briefly vortexed, and extractions were incubated at -20C for 30-minutes. After this initial incubation, extraction tubes were vortexed again and incubated at +4C for 30-minutes. After the second incubation, extraction tubes were centrifuged for 5-minutes at 12,000g and 80µL of supernatant was collected for injection to the mass spectrometer (MS). Alongside the samples, a system suitability standard (SSC) was prepared as with the real samples substituting water for the sample material. In addition, a standard curve of d9-phosphocholine was prepared in water using a 10µg/mL stock solution and diluting in two-fold steps for a total of 6 standards (10µg/mL - 0.3125µg/mL). Targeted MS analysis was carried out on a QExactive instrument interfaced to an Thermo Vanquish liquid chromatography (LC) system controlled using XCalibur software (version 4.2). For analysis, samples were directly separated by an analytical column (2.1mm x 150mm, Acquity Premiere BEH HILIC, 1.7µm) at a flow rate of 0.25mL/min. For analyte elution the gradient held at an initial starting condition of 95% mobile phase B (5mM ammonium acetate, 5mM ammonium hydroxide, 5% water in acetonitrile) for 2-minutes before ramping to 30% B over 0.9 minutes, ramping to 0% B in 0.1-minutes and holding for 1-minute, ramping to 95% B in 0.5-minutes and holding for 4.5-minutes (total run time of 10-minutes, mobile phase A = 5mM ammonium acetate, 5mM ammonium hydroxide, 5% acetonitrile in water). Data acquisition on the QExactive (instrument control version 2.13) utilized a targeted parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) acquisition scheme with an MS/MS resolution of 17,500, an AGC target of 1e6, a maximum injection time of 50ms, and an isolation window of 0.7m/z. In positive mode, the acquisition method was set to loop over all pre-specified precursors for the following metabolites (parent m/z, fragment m/z, NCE): phosphocholine (184.07, 60); d9-phosphocholine (193.12, 60). The QExactive was globally set to use a sheath gas of 45, aux gas of 20, sweep gas of 2, spray voltage of 3.7kV, capillary temperature of 300, S-lens RF of 45, and auxillary temperature of 400. Sample acquisition was batched in the following scheme: blanks - SSCs - blanks - standards - blanks - samples intermixed with SSCs - blanks - SSCs - blanks - standards - blanks - SSCs - blanks. All acquired data were processed in Skyline software.

